# Protocol Overview

Source Code of the main contract:

[https://github.com/DeLabsI0/LLDEX/tree/main/LLDEX-Core/contracts/Limit-order-protocol](https://github.com/DeLabsI0/LLDEX/tree/main/LLDEX-Core/contracts/Limit-order-protocol)

LLDEXProtocol implements a settlement layer for quotes send from market maker to market taker. Market makers are responsible for executing pre-signed execution requests send to market takers. 

On-chain LLDEXProtocol does guarantee that each execution request signed by the market taker is only executed once and transfers are successfully executed for both sides of the trade: maker to taker, and taker to maker.

Validations of execution requests send from market takers to market makers are expected to be performed off-chain.



The core of LLDEX Protocol is based on 1inch Limit Order Protocol and 1inch Limit Order Protocol util. 1inch Limit Order Protocol has been audited multiple times by respected auditors. Security Audits of 1inch Limit Order Protocol can be found on: [https://github.com/1inch/1inch-audits/tree/master/Limit Order Protocol](https://github.com/1inch/1inch-audits/tree/master/Limit%20Order%20Protocol)

Comparison between 1inch Limit Order Protocol and LLDEX Protocol:

1. LLDEX Protocol is using just RFQ workflow of 1inch Limit Order Protocol. Limit Orders with complex predicate functionality have been deleted to avoid unnecessary complexity.
2. In RFQ workflow of 1inch Limit Order Protocol market makers were providing firm liquidity to market takers with defined validity time exposing themselves to the risk of arbitrage during the order validity period. This is causing that pricing provided by market makers was taking into account expected volatility when providing firm pricing to market takes. LLDEX Protocol is switching the role of market taker with the role of the market maker. In LLDEX Protocol market taker is sending execution requests to the market maker. In LLDEX Protocol market maker has the right to accept or reject execution requests from market takers. Market taker is defining the time till when execution requests can be executed by the market maker. This change has not affected the core logic of the code, but to make clear on the Protocol level about our intention of the desired workflow, we decided to replace “maker” naming with “taker” and “taker” with “maker” in the original 1inch Limit Order Protocol and in 1inch Limit Order Protocol util.
3. The design of 1inch Limit Order Protocol is relying on signatures generated by market makers and market taker accounts that are holding transaction nominals. To allow low latency execution, LLDEX Protocol is implementing a unique concept of user session account that is saved on the blockchain on the market taker and the market maker side. After user session account is assigned to the account holding transaction nominal on the blockchain, private key stored in the browser or in some other execution engine has the right to:

   * sign execution request in the name of market taker
   * push transaction to the blockchain in the name of market maker account. 

   This is an analogy to the regular centralized exchanges, banks, and Gmail account. In the case of these services, after login, we have access to certain functionality without the need of password reentrance \(like executing trades on Binance or executing big FX trades on platforms like Bloomberg\). User session account on the maker and taker side allows shortening the time between “market taker clicking the rate” to “market maker sending transaction to the blockchain for settlement” to milliseconds without a need to store private keys of the nominal holding accounts in the browser. The protocol gives also the possibility to the market taker to sign execution requests with the main account to avoid gas costs related to session creation on the blockchain, but this workflow is not recommended due to the higher risk of market movement during the execution request signature process. This will result in a much higher rejection ratio or a much wider price quoted to the users that are sending execution requests using outdated quotes.

4. Market Maker is able to settle the trade at a better rate than requested by the market taker.









## 

